W-19565510-Add-examples-to-MuleSoft-MCP-Server-tools-ie (#27)
mulesoft/docs-mulesoft-mcp-server: modules/ROOT/pages/reference-mcp-tools.adoc

  }
}
----

.Example response
[source,json]
----
{
  "success": true,
  "requestId": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "statusCode": 200,
  "responseHeaders": {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
    "X-Request-ID": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000"
  },
  "responseBody": "{\"pets\": [{\"id\": \"1\", \"name\": \"Fluffy\", \"category\": \"cat\", \"status\": \"available\"}, {\"id\": \"2\", \"name\": \"Buddy\", \"category\": \"dog\", \"status\": \"available\"}]}",
  "responseTime": 45,
  "message": "Mock request completed successfully"
}
----

[[open-project]]
== open_project

Open a project. For example, an API spec or an agent network project.

Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

[%header,cols="1,3,1"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Required?

|`projectPath`
|Path to the project folder. The default is the current workspace. For absolute paths, use `file:` followed by three slash characters. For example, `\file:///Users/myUser/workspace/`.
|No

|`newWindow`
|Whether the project opens in a new VS Code window (true) or not (false). The default is false.
|No

|`addToWorkspace`

> |Whether the project opens in a new folder in the workspace (true) or not (false). If true, then `newWindow=false`.

Reviewer: So the default is true? I had to read this a couple of times to get it. But I don't know if there's a way to improve it. It might just be me.

Author: I see what's happening--you have to refer back to the table entry above it for it to make sense.

Prerequisite: The agent network project must contain a valid `exchange.json` file.

Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

[%header,cols="1,3,1"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Required?

|`projectPath`
|Path to the agent network project to publish.
|No

|`assetVersion`
|Semantic version for the asset (such as `1.0.0`).
|Yes

|`groupId`
|Organization/business group ID (falls back to project configuration).
|No

|===

.Example request
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "publish_agent_network_assets",
  "arguments": {
    "projectPath": "/Users/developer/projects/my-agent-network",
    "assetVersion": "1.0.0",
    "groupId": "com.example.organization"
  }
}
----

.Example response
[source,json]
----
{
  "success": true,
  "assetId": "my-agent-network",
  "groupId": "com.example.organization",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "exchangeUrl": "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.example.organization/my-agent-network/1.0.0/",
  "message": "Agent network assets published successfully to Exchange"
}
----

[[run-local-mule-application]]
== run_local_mule_application

> Run application locally in Mule runtime. This tool handles the full local deployment workflow: builds the project if needed, downloads runtime if needed, and starts the application locally.

Reviewer: I would do a bullet list but I'll leave that up to you. It's not a big deal.

> Run application locally in Mule runtime. This tool handles the full local deployment workflow: builds the project if needed, downloads runtime if needed, and starts the application locally.

Author: ```suggestion
Run application locally in Mule runtime. This tool handles the full local deployment workflow: 

* If needed, it builds the project.
* If needed, it downloads runtime.
* It starts the application locally.
```

[%header,cols="1,3,1"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Required?

|`projectPath`
|Path to the Mule project directory to run locally.
|Yes

|`javaHome`

> |Get JAVA_HOME from JDK from \"AnypointCodeBuilder\" (grep for exact name) installation if exists. Installation is usually located in user home directory. If installation does not exist, get user's java_home. If multiple JDKs exist, choose the latest one that matches javaSpecificationVersions in mule-artifacts.json. If JDK version does not match any of the versions in mule-artifacts.json, return 'No JAVA_HOME found. Don't retry.'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Get JAVA_HOME from JDK from `\"AnypointCodeBuilder\"` (grep for exact name) installation if it exists. Installation is usually located in the user's home directory. If the installation doesn't exist, get the user's `java_home`. If multiple JDKs exist, choose the latest one that matches `javaSpecificationVersions` in `mule-artifacts.json`. If the JDK version doesn't match any of the versions in `mule-artifacts.json`, return 'No JAVA_HOME found. Don't retry.'.
```

    "ascending": true
  }
}
----

.Example response
[source,json]
----
{
  "success": true,
  "searchQuery": "customer API",
  "totalResults": 3,
  "maxResults": 5,
  "assets": [
    {
      "groupId": "com.mycompany.apis",
      "assetId": "customer-management-api",
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "name": "Customer Management API",
      "type": "raml",
      "status": "published",
      "description": "RESTful API for managing customer data and operations",
      "exchangeUrl": "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mycompany.apis/customer-management-api/1.0.0/",
      "lastModified": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
      "createdBy": "developer@mycompany.com"
    },
    {
      "groupId": "com.example.apis",
      "assetId": "customer-data-api",
      "version": "2.1.0",
      "name": "Customer Data API",
      "type": "oas",
      "status": "published",
      "description": "OpenAPI specification for customer data services",
      "exchangeUrl": "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.example.apis/customer-data-api/2.1.0/",
      "lastModified": "2024-01-12T14:20:00Z",
      "createdBy": "api-team@example.com"
    }
  ]
}
----

[[test-connection]]
== test_connection

> Test a connector configuration for a Mule project. For example, test connectivity for a HTTP listener connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test a connector configuration for a Mule project. For example, test connectivity for an HTTP listener connection.
```

|Yes

|===

.Example request
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "test_connection",
  "arguments": {
    "configurationUri": "file:///Users/developer/customer-integration-app/src/main/mule/global.xml",
    "configurationName": "HTTP_Listener_config"
  }
}
----

.Example response
[source,json]
----
{
  "success": true,
  "configurationName": "HTTP_Listener_config",
  "connectionTest": "PASSED",
  "testDuration": 1250,
  "message": "Connection test successful",
  "details": {
    "host": "0.0.0.0",
    "port": 8081,
    "protocol": "HTTP",
    "status": "Available"
  }
}
----

[[uc-create-connector-workflow]]
== uc_create_connector_workflow

Create a complete LinkWeave connector end-to-end with guided workflow planning. Supports two flows: generating an API spec from documentation, or using an existing API spec file. Returns a detailed workflow plan with numbered steps to execute sequentially.

Available only in Connector Builder.

[%header,cols="1,3a,1"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Required?

|`workflowCustomization`
|Any specific workflow customizations, preferences, or requirements for the connector-creation process.
|No

|`flow`
|Flow selection. Valid values are:

> * `generate-spec` to generate API spec from documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `generate-spec` to generate an API spec from documentation
```

> * `existing-spec` if user has an existing API spec file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `existing-spec` if the user has an existing API spec file
```

  "arguments": {
    "projectName": "Pet Store API",
    "projectPath": "/Users/developer/projects",
    "language": "oas",
    "languageVersion": "3.0",
    "format": "yaml",
    "isApiEnabledForTopicsAndActions": true
  }
}
----

.Example request (RAML 1.0)
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "create_api_spec_project",
  "arguments": {
    "projectName": "User Management API",
    "projectPath": "/Users/developer/projects",
    "language": "raml",
    "languageVersion": "1.0",
    "format": "yaml"
  }
}
----

.Example request (RAML Fragment)
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "create_api_spec_project",
  "arguments": {
    "projectName": "Common Traits",
    "projectPath": "/Users/developer/projects",
    "language": "raml-fragment",
    "languageVersion": "1.0",
    "fragmentType": "trait",
    "format": "yaml"
  }
}
----

.Example response
[source,json]
----
{
  "success": true,
  "projectPath": "/Users/developer/projects/pet-store-api",
  "filesCreated": [
    "pet-store-api.yaml",
    "exchange.json",
    "README.md"
  ],
  "specType": "oas",
  "specVersion": "3.0",
  "message": "API spec project created successfully"
}
----

[[create-mule-project]]
== create_mule_project

> Create a new Mule project without flow generation. This tool focuses on just the project structure setup with optional parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Mule project without flow generation. This tool focuses only on the project structure setup with optional parameters.
```

[%header,cols="1,3,1"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Required?

|`projectPath`

> |Directory to create project in. Default is the current workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Directory to create the project in. Default is the current workspace.
```

|The project name.
|Yes

|`url`
|The URL location where you want to create the new project. The default, if not specified, is `{USER_HOME}/dw-projects/`.
|No

|===

.Example request
[source,json]
----
{
  "tool_name": "dataweave_create_project",
  "arguments": {
    "groupId": "com.mycompany.dataweave",
    "projectName": "customer-data-transformer",
    "url": "file:///Users/developer/dataweave-projects/"
  }
}
----

.Example response
[source,json]
----
{
  "success": true,
  "projectUrl": "file:///Users/developer/dataweave-projects/customer-data-transformer",
  "projectName": "customer-data-transformer",
  "groupId": "com.mycompany.dataweave",
  "filesCreated": [
    "pom.xml",
    "src/main/dw/transform.dwl",
    "src/test/dw/transformTest.dwl",
    "README.md"
  ],
  "message": "DataWeave project created successfully. Would you like to open the project?"
}
----

[[dataweave-create-sample-data]]
== dataweave_create_sample_data

Create DataWeave input sample data for a given DataWeave transformation file and return the path where it was created. For example, use this tool to create sample data for a variable if a preview fails with `There is no variable named 'variableName'`.

> Prerequisite: Create the DataWeave script file before running `dataweave_create_sample_data`.

Reviewer: xref for how to create the DataWeave script file would be a nice to have.

> Prerequisite: Create the DataWeave script file before running `dataweave_create_sample_data`.

Author: ```suggestion
Prerequisite: Create the DataWeave script file before running `dataweave_create_sample_data`. For information about DataWeave scripts, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-language-introduction.adoc[]
```

        },
        {
          "name": "delimiter",
          "type": "String",
          "description": "The delimiter to split by"
        }
      ],
      "outputType": "Array<String>",
      "labels": ["string", "split", "array", "filter"],
      "signature": "splitAndFilter(text: String, delimiter: String): Array<String>",
      "example": {
        "input": "splitAndFilter(\"a,,b,c,\", \",\")",
        "output": "[\"a\", \"b\", \"c\"]"
      }
    }
  ],
  "variables": [
    {
      "name": "DEFAULT_DELIMITER",
      "type": "String",
      "value": "\",\"",
      "documentation": "Default delimiter used for string operations"
    }
  ],
  "namespaces": [
    {
      "prefix": "str",
      "uri": "dw::core::Strings"
    }
  ],
  "types": [
    {
      "name": "ProcessingOptions",
      "type": "Object",
      "properties": [
        {
          "name": "caseSensitive",
          "type": "Boolean",
          "optional": true
        },
        {
          "name": "trimWhitespace",
          "type": "Boolean",
          "optional": true
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
----

[[dataweave-get-project-metadata]]
== dataweave_get_project_metadata

> Returns the metadata of a DataWeave project, including the list of source folders, and test folders, that defines where to create the files. The tool output includes the list of available modules with their URL, and all the functions, variables, namespaces, and types. The output also includes the list of all the data formats supported by the project. Call this tool before generating any code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the metadata of a DataWeave project (including the list of source folders and test folders) that defines where to create the files. The tool output includes the list of available modules with their URL, and all the functions, variables, namespaces, and types. The output also includes the list of all the data formats supported by the project. Call this tool before generating any code.
```

Reviewer: That's just a suggestion. I was finding it hard to read with the commas. Should it be "list of available modules with their URL**s**" or is it only one URL for all available modules?
